README.md, before:

# Outreach Coordination
This repo serves as a single point for us to keep notes on how the outreach programme is coordinated.

# People

The wonderful Caroline Higgins is the member of University staff in charge of the Outreach programme. She can be found in the MVB Office (just ask at the desk) or you can email her (firstname.lastname@bristol.ac.uk). Feel free to email her or find her at any time if you have any questions or are feeling daunted by any of this stuff.

The complete list of people involved in the Outreach programme is rather variable, but certainly the members of the team for this Github group is a good place to start. Most people have also left contact details on the workshops they have created.

For 2016-17, Ed Nutting is the Outreach Teaching Assistant who is helping Caroline coordinate things. Contact him for Github related questions, techy questions or if you would just prefer to talk to an undergrad (3rd year) (Caroline is a lovely person though).

# Workshops

Digimakers operates as a loose knit organisation of people who create and run workshops for kids (ages 8 to 18). Members of the Merchant Venturers School of Engineering (undergrads, postgrads, staff, etc) are all invited to help out. 

All work is paid per hour - speak to Caroline about the rate for the current year (it's always really good).

There are two ways you can help out:

1. Run a workshop
2. Create a workshop

These are described in more detail below. **We're always looking for more helpers, so please get in touch with the people named above if you're interested in helping!**

There's lots of information here to help you get started. If you're feeling daunted or overwhelmed by it, please chat to Caroline or the Outreach Teaching Assistant, they're very happy to help and can walk you through everything in a simplified way.

## Running a workshop

Running a workshop is really quite easy. Here are the simple steps to follow:

1. **Take a look down the [list of workshops on the website](http://www.digimakers.co.uk)** and find one or two you think you might like to run. 
  
  (Or, if you're not sure, just ask us for advice and we'll match you to one we think you'll enjoy running).
2. **Contact Caroline or the Outreach Teaching Assistant for the current year**
  
  Just say you're interested and they email you back (or speak to us in person - Caroline is usually at her desk in MVB 2.19)
3. **Attend some really short training.**
  
  This is just to make sure you understand the workshop and some advice on how to deal with kids, health and safety and one or two other bits. We'll also sort out DBS (previously called CRB) checks for you at this point too.
4. **Show up on the day and run the workshop!**
  
  We'll ask you to show up a bit earlier than the event time to set up the workshop and after that, you run it and then clear up.

Workshops are run in two places: Digimakers and Digimakers Roadshow. For more details, see Events below.

## Creating a workshop

Creating a workshop is a slightly more involved process that we have tried to outline below. You may need to use some interpretative dance though to help follow it. 

If you get stuck or there's too much info here, please chat to Caroline or the Outreach Teaching Assistant - we'll be happy to help. We really appreciate you giving up your time and your effort to create a workshop for us!

1. **Come up with an idea for your workshop**
  
  Yep, you're going to need an idea first. If you ask Caroline, sometimes we have ideas waiting for people to create them. You're welcome to use your own idea though. 
  
  Ideas should be fun, exciting and targeted towards children. Our "themes" are creativity and being hands-on - we're Digi-Makers after all. Workshops should get kids doing something creative. Tech is great, but trawling through code, documents and wiring diagrams only really engage one particular kind of child. We're aiming to broaden the range of kids who get involved in creating stuff with tech.

  Remember, this is about engaging kids with tech and helping them learn something fun that they can continue at home. Most of them won't have much if any coding or electronics experience either, so please think about what is achievable with an inexperienced 8 to 18 year old (you may need to pick a particular age range. At the moment we are focusing on workshops for ages 8 to 11). If you need any advice about this, please contact us - we're happy to discuss ideas and guide you through this.
2. **Decide on a name**
  
  Go wild (but nothing inappropriate for kids to see and no acronyms please). 
2. **Write an outline of your workshop**
  
  Doesn't have to be a long - a paragraph will do. Just outline what tech you're trying to teach, why you want to teach it and some detail of what your workshop will cover (and in what order). Also, have a think about what prior knowledge you are expecting kids to have and write that down too.
3. **Send your outline to Caroline or the Outreach Teaching Assistant**
  
  Email your outline to us and we'll review it and give you some friendly feedback. We'll also double check that there isn't an existing workshop that's too similar or already in the making.
4. **Take on board feedback, modify outline and repeat**
  
  Once we've sent you feedback, you may need to modify your plan and just run it by us once more so that your workshop will be properly suited to Digimakers.
5. **Outline agreed? Great! Let's discuss format...**
  
  Okay, here's where things get a little contentious. Every CS and EE student has a vision for their workshop, which is great. But you're not going to be the only person running the workshop. Lots of undergrads are going to end up running it (if it's a success). Also, we work with staff in schools and parents, many of whom are not tech-savvy, so we have to make considerations for them too.
  
  If when you read this next bit you think "Oh but why?" or "Surely I can just do something slightly different, I have a great idea", please read the Justifications section afterwards. This next bit is just going to state what we'd like you to do when creating a workshop without any further justification.

  **The stuff below looks like a lot of info** but please treat it as a **guide**. We've tried to include information that will help you to develop your workshop without getting stuck. 
  
  **If you need any help, please just ask us - we're happy to help you create your workshop.** We greatly appreciate the time and effort you spend to creating a Digimakers style workshop and would like to make it as easy as possible for you.

  We recommend that workshops should be made up of: 
    - Online code resources (in a Github repository as part of this group)
    - A printable worksheet
    - A printable answers sheet
    - A printable session preparation sheet
  
  We'd like all of these should be in a consistent format across the different workshops. As such, we kindly ask that you **use the LaTeX templates provided in the LaTeX-Worksheet-Templates repository**. These have been put together to simplify the use of LaTeX so don't worry if you aren't familiar with it or have heard scary things about it. They also create a child-and-teacher-friendly layout/format and can easily be published to printable PDFs. **Please do not** use your own custom LaTeX template. (Again, read the justifications section). 
  
  If there is something you need to put in your worksheet that isn't possible with the current version of the template, modify the WorksheetSetup.tex to add your "feature" and then submit a pull request so others can review it. **If it's a good idea, we'll include it in the main template for optional use in all future worksheets.** If you're unsure whether your idea is good or not, please feel free to chat to us about ideas you have.
  
  **But my workshop requires video**
  
  Okay, if your workshop absolutely requires video, then you can use the Website Template (kindly created by Ben Marshall). Again, please don't use your own random template, Ben's is very very good and child-and-teacher-friendly. You can use this group's Github Pages setup to host the site for your workshop. Also, again, if you need to include something in the template, use a pull request so we can review.
6. **The one and only LaTeX template**
  
  There is one and only one LaTeX template for worksheets (and answers sheets and session preparation sheets). It resides in the LaTeX-Worksheet-Templates repository. Instructions on how to use it can also be found there. 

  If you decide to go rogue and use your own template, we'll just end up converting it to this template and undoing any work you put into your own template. 
  
  If you have genuinely good ideas, **please be friendly and work collaboratively/as a team** by submitting the ideas as updates to the existing template using Pull Requests. That way, **everyone will be able to use your idea in their worksheets** and so they all can improve!
7. **The one and only web template**
  
  As with the LaTeX template, there's one and only one website template. Modify it using pull requests if you want to. It lives in the Web-Tutorial-Template repository.
8. **Whine whine whine...**
  
  If you've decided to whine about any of the above somewhat-prescriptive rather-strict guidelines, read the Justifications section then either whine in an issue or go have a drink with Ed Nutting and winge at him :) 

  **Please don't let any of this put you off.** We're happy to help you and work with you to make great ideas come to fruition. Just come chat to us! :)
9. **Create a repository**
  
  (If you don't know what Git is or how to use it, we have a workshop to teach you! Contact the Outreach Teaching Assistant to organise a short introductory session).

  Create a repo in this group under the name of your workshop. Use Camel Case if possible (note: the web tutorial template is case sensitive) and use hyphens (-) instead of spaces.
9. **Create any resources you need (e.g. code)**
  
  We recommend you start by creating any code, models, images, circuits/circuit diagrams or other resources - i.e. the stuff the kid is going to actually do/use. We suggest you write down all the tiny details of things you have to do to make your project work. And, of course, write down even more carefully anything that goes wrong! 

  It's a good idea to use Git to commit your work in small stages into your repo. In later years, someone might come looking to find out what you did and why, so short but informative commit messages are useful! Also, repos are public and companies might come looking at your work, so remember to do the best you can. If you need advice, feel free to ask anyone in the Github group.
  
  **Don't use profanities in code or commit messages**. This ought to go without saying but yeah, the repos are public and kids browse them, so if you use profanities etc. there's a high chance a child will see them (which we/Caroline can get in serious trouble for) so please don't do it.

  If you've done all that, you should be in a good position to start creating your worksheet.
10. **Document your resources in a README**
  
  In your repo, create or edit the ReadMe to include your workshop outline. Then we advise that you document all your resources e.g. what folders are for/what they contain, how to build code (please try to make it work on Windows and Linux, not just one platform or the other), etc etc. This is really helpful for people running the workshop later who may not be "in tune" with your way of laying things out. Also, documenting required software and install/setup is vital - including things like Cygwin if you use it.
11. **Create a worksheet**
  
  More details on creating a worksheet from the template (or a workshop website from the web template) can be found in the repository(s).
12. **Create an answers sheet**
  
  Again, more detail in the repo(s).
13. **Create a session preparation document**
  
  Again, more detail in the repo(s). These get sent out to teachers and parents so they know what is required to run a particular workshop. If you're unsure about this, just chat to Caroline or the Outreach Teaching Assistant.
14. **Create PDFs of those three things**
  
  LaTeX can be published to PDF. Please do this.
15. **Submit your PDFs for inclusion in the list of workshops**
  
  The Worksheet-PDFs repository is used to keep current versions of all the sheets for workshops. This repo also serves as the central list of workshops to be included on the website (updated manually so if you don't follow procedure, your workshop might not end up on the website).

  Clone this repo, create a branch under your name, create a folder with the name of your workshop, copy the Worksheet, Answers Sheet and Session Preparation PDFs (only the PDFs) into the folder you just created. Now push your branch and submit a pull request. If you don't use a pull request, the web admin won't know that you've submitted a new workshop. 
  
  Please also use pull requests when submitting new versions of PDFs.
16. **Run your workshop!**
  
  Help out at a Digimakers event and run your workshop (see Running a workshop, above).


# Events

## Digimakers

This event happens 4 times per year. We book out the top floor of the @Bristol Science Center and run workshops between 10am and 4pm. Helpers arrive at 8:30/9am to set up and leave around 5pm after helping to clear up. This event always happens on a Saturday and you're paid for all the time you're at the event helping out. 

Along with the workshops, there is also the ***Drop-In area***. This area is run by usually three to five people. The drop-in provides three functions:

1. Laptop/equipment loan : Two people manage handing out and gathering back in equipment (most importantly: laptops)
2. Question free-for-all : Anyone attending Digimakers can book a one-hour one-to-one session with one of the non-equipment-manager drop-in helpers. 

  During these sessions, they are invited to ask any techy question they think of. This usually means they ask for help with a project they're trying to work on but sometimes we get kids who just want to chat tech! Also, parents often ask about how to use things like RaspberryPi and where to find extra resources for their kids to learn from. We have information sheets on hand to help answers these types of question.
3. Free-to-use RaspberryPis : We set up a bunch of RaspberryPis for anyone to use if they desire. (Though we try to limit the extent to which kids just play Minecraft the whole time).

## Digimakers Roadshow

New for 2016-17, we'll be taking our workshops directly into schools. We'll be running workshops as (usually one-off) lunchtime or after school sessions in local primary and secondary schools. Times and dates for these will be announced as we get bookings in. 


# Website

[The website](http://www.digimakers.co.uk) is managed by Caroline and her team. The website is developed and maintained by an external friend and he does an excellent job. If you think something should be on the website which isn't, or you spot a mistake or something which could be improved, please suggest it! (Please note, we're not looking for a complete redevelopment using XYZ platform on ABC specialist hosting site... See justifications below ;) )

In order to make life easier (and because it makes sense - see justifications below) we try to make as many workshops as possible into PDF worksheets. This allows us to easily put them up on the site and share them with teachers in schools. 


# Justification of seemingly arbitrary decisions

## LaTeX/PDF worksheets instead of website tutorials

In no particular order:

* Websites are great, but when we go into schools, websites are often blocked and it is frustratingly difficult to get them unblocked (most schools don't have control over their firewalls and site blockers - the council does). Being able to print worksheets before we go makes it a lot easier.
* Most of our setups are single screen. Which makes switching to and from a website and the application very difficult, especially as most children are (by CS student standards) slow at using the mouse (and they're really unlikely to use shortcut keys). So again, printed worksheets make life easier.
* We frequently have internet connectivity issues in venues. Printed worksheets again solve this problem.
* Sending PDFs to teachers for them to read is easier for them and generally receives a better response than directing them to lots of websites.
* Printed worksheets have a consistent format and follow through nicely, so they're easy to teach with.
* We can easily hand our printed worksheets to parents to take away
* Many people attending Digimakers don't have laptops to bring, so using website tutorials requires us to loan out laptops. This is a lot of extra organisational effort already. Printed worksheets are virtually zero effort.
* The LaTeX template is easier to work with than the web template so requires less training for people who are new to creating workshops.
* PDFs can easily be uploaded to the website.
* PDFs can be placed into a single repo so everyone can find them, use them and review them.

## One LaTeX template for all

In no particular order:

* The template is designed to be good for teaching kids. Teachers have reviewed it (along with other design suggestions) and recommended this format to us. It wasn't just plucked out of nowhere.
* Most people who make their own LaTeX template end up with something that is fine for University level students, but it beyond what an 8 year old can cope with.
* If your idea for a worksheet is *that good*, then it's good enough for everyone to use. I.e. it's good enough for you to integrate it with the proper worksheet template and submit a pull request for your idea (and implementation) to be reviewed. 
* Consistent format across all worksheets makes it much easier to train people up to run workshops. 
* Consistent format across all worksheets makes it much easier to pick up any worksheet and use it - this makes a big difference in the Drop-In area of Digimakers.
* One template for all means everyone can take advantage of other people's good ideas.
* LaTeX makes it easy to (re-)publish the PDFs when necessary.
* LaTeX is a skill that most engineering students need to learn at some point anyway. Why not now by having the outreach programme train them? :)

## One central repo for PDFs

In no particular order:

* One place to find all workshops = speedy access during our fast-paced Digimakers events if we happen to run out of printed copies
* One place = one place for parents to look after the event. No trawling through all our repos!
* One place = one place for the web admin to look/to link to maintain the list on the website
* One place = one place for Caroline and the Outreach Teaching Assistant to look to see what's going on / what workshops are available (because if you hadn't noticed, the list of repos isn't great to trawl through!)

## One repo per workshop

In no particular order:

* One place for all resources/stuff for a particular workshop
* Folders within repos and/or branches are better for managing sub-parts of a workshop
* No duplication of repo names making the list of repos much easier to use

## No website re-makes

No, just no. Endlessly remaking the website is a pointless waste of time. It's very good as it is and we have someone to manage/develop it. By all means suggest ideas, but we'll be keeping the set up as it is for the foreseeable future.

Commit message:

Added info about workshops on website to website section

README.md, after:

# Outreach Coordination
This repo serves as a single point for us to keep notes on how the outreach programme is coordinated.

# People

The wonderful Caroline Higgins is the member of University staff in charge of the Outreach programme. She can be found in the MVB Office (just ask at the desk) or you can email her (firstname.lastname@bristol.ac.uk). Feel free to email her or find her at any time if you have any questions or are feeling daunted by any of this stuff.

The complete list of people involved in the Outreach programme is rather variable, but certainly the members of the team for this Github group is a good place to start. Most people have also left contact details on the workshops they have created.

For 2016-17, Ed Nutting is the Outreach Teaching Assistant who is helping Caroline coordinate things. Contact him for Github related questions, techy questions or if you would just prefer to talk to an undergrad (3rd year) (Caroline is a lovely person though).

# Workshops

Digimakers operates as a loose knit organisation of people who create and run workshops for kids (ages 8 to 18). Members of the Merchant Venturers School of Engineering (undergrads, postgrads, staff, etc) are all invited to help out. 

All work is paid per hour - speak to Caroline about the rate for the current year (it's always really good).

There are two ways you can help out:

1. Run a workshop
2. Create a workshop

These are described in more detail below. **We're always looking for more helpers, so please get in touch with the people named above if you're interested in helping!**

There's lots of information here to help you get started. If you're feeling daunted or overwhelmed by it, please chat to Caroline or the Outreach Teaching Assistant, they're very happy to help and can walk you through everything in a simplified way.

## Running a workshop

Running a workshop is really quite easy. Here are the simple steps to follow:

1. **Take a look down the [list of workshops on the website](http://www.digimakers.co.uk)** and find one or two you think you might like to run. 
  
  (Or, if you're not sure, just ask us for advice and we'll match you to one we think you'll enjoy running).
2. **Contact Caroline or the Outreach Teaching Assistant for the current year**
  
  Just say you're interested and they email you back (or speak to us in person - Caroline is usually at her desk in MVB 2.19)
3. **Attend some really short training.**
  
  This is just to make sure you understand the workshop and some advice on how to deal with kids, health and safety and one or two other bits. We'll also sort out DBS (previously called CRB) checks for you at this point too.
4. **Show up on the day and run the workshop!**
  
  We'll ask you to show up a bit earlier than the event time to set up the workshop and after that, you run it and then clear up.

Workshops are run in two places: Digimakers and Digimakers Roadshow. For more details, see Events below.

## Creating a workshop

Creating a workshop is a slightly more involved process that we have tried to outline below. You may need to use some interpretative dance though to help follow it. 

If you get stuck or there's too much info here, please chat to Caroline or the Outreach Teaching Assistant - we'll be happy to help. We really appreciate you giving up your time and your effort to create a workshop for us!

1. **Come up with an idea for your workshop**
  
  Yep, you're going to need an idea first. If you ask Caroline, sometimes we have ideas waiting for people to create them. You're welcome to use your own idea though. 
  
  Ideas should be fun, exciting and targeted towards children. Our "themes" are creativity and being hands-on - we're Digi-Makers after all. Workshops should get kids doing something creative. Tech is great, but trawling through code, documents and wiring diagrams only really engage one particular kind of child. We're aiming to broaden the range of kids who get involved in creating stuff with tech.

  Remember, this is about engaging kids with tech and helping them learn something fun that they can continue at home. Most of them won't have much if any coding or electronics experience either, so please think about what is achievable with an inexperienced 8 to 18 year old (you may need to pick a particular age range. At the moment we are focusing on workshops for ages 8 to 11). If you need any advice about this, please contact us - we're happy to discuss ideas and guide you through this.
2. **Decide on a name**
  
  Go wild (but nothing inappropriate for kids to see and no acronyms please). 
2. **Write an outline of your workshop**
  
  Doesn't have to be a long - a paragraph will do. Just outline what tech you're trying to teach, why you want to teach it and some detail of what your workshop will cover (and in what order). Also, have a think about what prior knowledge you are expecting kids to have and write that down too.
3. **Send your outline to Caroline or the Outreach Teaching Assistant**
  
  Email your outline to us and we'll review it and give you some friendly feedback. We'll also double check that there isn't an existing workshop that's too similar or already in the making.
4. **Take on board feedback, modify outline and repeat**
  
  Once we've sent you feedback, you may need to modify your plan and just run it by us once more so that your workshop will be properly suited to Digimakers.
5. **Outline agreed? Great! Let's discuss format...**
  
  Okay, here's where things get a little contentious. Every CS and EE student has a vision for their workshop, which is great. But you're not going to be the only person running the workshop. Lots of undergrads are going to end up running it (if it's a success). Also, we work with staff in schools and parents, many of whom are not tech-savvy, so we have to make considerations for them too.
  
  If when you read this next bit you think "Oh but why?" or "Surely I can just do something slightly different, I have a great idea", please read the Justifications section afterwards. This next bit is just going to state what we'd like you to do when creating a workshop without any further justification.

  **The stuff below looks like a lot of info** but please treat it as a **guide**. We've tried to include information that will help you to develop your workshop without getting stuck. 
  
  **If you need any help, please just ask us - we're happy to help you create your workshop.** We greatly appreciate the time and effort you spend to creating a Digimakers style workshop and would like to make it as easy as possible for you.

  We recommend that workshops should be made up of: 
    - Online code resources (in a Github repository as part of this group)
    - A printable worksheet
    - A printable answers sheet
    - A printable session preparation sheet
  
  We'd like all of these should be in a consistent format across the different workshops. As such, we kindly ask that you **use the LaTeX templates provided in the LaTeX-Worksheet-Templates repository**. These have been put together to simplify the use of LaTeX so don't worry if you aren't familiar with it or have heard scary things about it. They also create a child-and-teacher-friendly layout/format and can easily be published to printable PDFs. **Please do not** use your own custom LaTeX template. (Again, read the justifications section). 
  
  If there is something you need to put in your worksheet that isn't possible with the current version of the template, modify the WorksheetSetup.tex to add your "feature" and then submit a pull request so others can review it. **If it's a good idea, we'll include it in the main template for optional use in all future worksheets.** If you're unsure whether your idea is good or not, please feel free to chat to us about ideas you have.
  
  **But my workshop requires video**
  
  Okay, if your workshop absolutely requires video, then you can use the Website Template (kindly created by Ben Marshall). Again, please don't use your own random template, Ben's is very very good and child-and-teacher-friendly. You can use this group's Github Pages setup to host the site for your workshop. Also, again, if you need to include something in the template, use a pull request so we can review.
6. **The one and only LaTeX template**
  
  There is one and only one LaTeX template for worksheets (and answers sheets and session preparation sheets). It resides in the LaTeX-Worksheet-Templates repository. Instructions on how to use it can also be found there. 

  If you decide to go rogue and use your own template, we'll just end up converting it to this template and undoing any work you put into your own template. 
  
  If you have genuinely good ideas, **please be friendly and work collaboratively/as a team** by submitting the ideas as updates to the existing template using Pull Requests. That way, **everyone will be able to use your idea in their worksheets** and so they all can improve!
7. **The one and only web template**
  
  As with the LaTeX template, there's one and only one website template. Modify it using pull requests if you want to. It lives in the Web-Tutorial-Template repository.
8. **Whine whine whine...**
  
  If you've decided to whine about any of the above somewhat-prescriptive rather-strict guidelines, read the Justifications section then either whine in an issue or go have a drink with Ed Nutting and winge at him :) 

  **Please don't let any of this put you off.** We're happy to help you and work with you to make great ideas come to fruition. Just come chat to us! :)
9. **Create a repository**
  
  (If you don't know what Git is or how to use it, we have a workshop to teach you! Contact the Outreach Teaching Assistant to organise a short introductory session).

  Create a repo in this group under the name of your workshop. Use Camel Case if possible (note: the web tutorial template is case sensitive) and use hyphens (-) instead of spaces.
9. **Create any resources you need (e.g. code)**
  
  We recommend you start by creating any code, models, images, circuits/circuit diagrams or other resources - i.e. the stuff the kid is going to actually do/use. We suggest you write down all the tiny details of things you have to do to make your project work. And, of course, write down even more carefully anything that goes wrong! 

  It's a good idea to use Git to commit your work in small stages into your repo. In later years, someone might come looking to find out what you did and why, so short but informative commit messages are useful! Also, repos are public and companies might come looking at your work, so remember to do the best you can. If you need advice, feel free to ask anyone in the Github group.
  
  **Don't use profanities in code or commit messages**. This ought to go without saying but yeah, the repos are public and kids browse them, so if you use profanities etc. there's a high chance a child will see them (which we/Caroline can get in serious trouble for) so please don't do it.

  If you've done all that, you should be in a good position to start creating your worksheet.
10. **Document your resources in a README**
  
  In your repo, create or edit the ReadMe to include your workshop outline. Then we advise that you document all your resources e.g. what folders are for/what they contain, how to build code (please try to make it work on Windows and Linux, not just one platform or the other), etc etc. This is really helpful for people running the workshop later who may not be "in tune" with your way of laying things out. Also, documenting required software and install/setup is vital - including things like Cygwin if you use it.
11. **Create a worksheet**
  
  More details on creating a worksheet from the template (or a workshop website from the web template) can be found in the repository(s).
12. **Create an answers sheet**
  
  Again, more detail in the repo(s).
13. **Create a session preparation document**
  
  Again, more detail in the repo(s). These get sent out to teachers and parents so they know what is required to run a particular workshop. If you're unsure about this, just chat to Caroline or the Outreach Teaching Assistant.
14. **Create PDFs of those three things**
  
  LaTeX can be published to PDF. Please do this.
15. **Submit your PDFs for inclusion in the list of workshops**
  
  The Worksheet-PDFs repository is used to keep current versions of all the sheets for workshops. This repo also serves as the central list of workshops to be included on the website (updated manually so if you don't follow procedure, your workshop might not end up on the website).

  Clone this repo, create a branch under your name, create a folder with the name of your workshop, copy the Worksheet, Answers Sheet and Session Preparation PDFs (only the PDFs) into the folder you just created. Now push your branch and submit a pull request. If you don't use a pull request, the web admin won't know that you've submitted a new workshop. 
  
  Please also use pull requests when submitting new versions of PDFs.
16. **Run your workshop!**
  
  Help out at a Digimakers event and run your workshop (see Running a workshop, above).


# Events

## Digimakers

This event happens 4 times per year. We book out the top floor of the @Bristol Science Center and run workshops between 10am and 4pm. Helpers arrive at 8:30/9am to set up and leave around 5pm after helping to clear up. This event always happens on a Saturday and you're paid for all the time you're at the event helping out. 

Along with the workshops, there is also the ***Drop-In area***. This area is run by usually three to five people. The drop-in provides three functions:

1. Laptop/equipment loan : Two people manage handing out and gathering back in equipment (most importantly: laptops)
2. Question free-for-all : Anyone attending Digimakers can book a one-hour one-to-one session with one of the non-equipment-manager drop-in helpers. 

  During these sessions, they are invited to ask any techy question they think of. This usually means they ask for help with a project they're trying to work on but sometimes we get kids who just want to chat tech! Also, parents often ask about how to use things like RaspberryPi and where to find extra resources for their kids to learn from. We have information sheets on hand to help answers these types of question.
3. Free-to-use RaspberryPis : We set up a bunch of RaspberryPis for anyone to use if they desire. (Though we try to limit the extent to which kids just play Minecraft the whole time).

## Digimakers Roadshow

New for 2016-17, we'll be taking our workshops directly into schools. We'll be running workshops as (usually one-off) lunchtime or after school sessions in local primary and secondary schools. Times and dates for these will be announced as we get bookings in. 


# Website

[The website](http://www.digimakers.co.uk) is managed by Caroline and her team. The website is developed and maintained by an external friend and he does an excellent job. If you think something should be on the website which isn't, or you spot a mistake or something which could be improved, please suggest it! (Please note, we're not looking for a complete redevelopment using XYZ platform on ABC specialist hosting site... See justifications below ;) )

In order to make life easier (and because it makes sense - see justifications below) we try to make as many workshops as possible into PDF worksheets. This allows us to easily put them up on the site and share them with teachers in schools. 

## How do workshops go on the website?

Workshop PDFs are submitted via Pull Requests to the Workshop-PDFs repository. The Outreach Teaching Assistant then reviews the requests, merges them if they're ready and notifies the web admin of any new PDFs. The web admin then updates the website.

# Justification of seemingly arbitrary decisions

## LaTeX/PDF worksheets instead of website tutorials

In no particular order:

* Websites are great, but when we go into schools, websites are often blocked and it is frustratingly difficult to get them unblocked (most schools don't have control over their firewalls and site blockers - the council does). Being able to print worksheets before we go makes it a lot easier.
* Most of our setups are single screen. Which makes switching to and from a website and the application very difficult, especially as most children are (by CS student standards) slow at using the mouse (and they're really unlikely to use shortcut keys). So again, printed worksheets make life easier.
* We frequently have internet connectivity issues in venues. Printed worksheets again solve this problem.
* Sending PDFs to teachers for them to read is easier for them and generally receives a better response than directing them to lots of websites.
* Printed worksheets have a consistent format and follow through nicely, so they're easy to teach with.
* We can easily hand our printed worksheets to parents to take away
* Many people attending Digimakers don't have laptops to bring, so using website tutorials requires us to loan out laptops. This is a lot of extra organisational effort already. Printed worksheets are virtually zero effort.
* The LaTeX template is easier to work with than the web template so requires less training for people who are new to creating workshops.
* PDFs can easily be uploaded to the website.
* PDFs can be placed into a single repo so everyone can find them, use them and review them.

## One LaTeX template for all

In no particular order:

* The template is designed to be good for teaching kids. Teachers have reviewed it (along with other design suggestions) and recommended this format to us. It wasn't just plucked out of nowhere.
* Most people who make their own LaTeX template end up with something that is fine for University level students, but it beyond what an 8 year old can cope with.
* If your idea for a worksheet is *that good*, then it's good enough for everyone to use. I.e. it's good enough for you to integrate it with the proper worksheet template and submit a pull request for your idea (and implementation) to be reviewed. 
* Consistent format across all worksheets makes it much easier to train people up to run workshops. 
* Consistent format across all worksheets makes it much easier to pick up any worksheet and use it - this makes a big difference in the Drop-In area of Digimakers.
* One template for all means everyone can take advantage of other people's good ideas.
* LaTeX makes it easy to (re-)publish the PDFs when necessary.
* LaTeX is a skill that most engineering students need to learn at some point anyway. Why not now by having the outreach programme train them? :)

## One central repo for PDFs

In no particular order:

* One place to find all workshops = speedy access during our fast-paced Digimakers events if we happen to run out of printed copies
* One place = one place for parents to look after the event. No trawling through all our repos!
* One place = one place for the web admin to look/to link to maintain the list on the website
* One place = one place for Caroline and the Outreach Teaching Assistant to look to see what's going on / what workshops are available (because if you hadn't noticed, the list of repos isn't great to trawl through!)

## One repo per workshop

In no particular order:

* One place for all resources/stuff for a particular workshop
* Folders within repos and/or branches are better for managing sub-parts of a workshop
* No duplication of repo names making the list of repos much easier to use

## No website re-makes

No, just no. Endlessly remaking the website is a pointless waste of time. It's very good as it is and we have someone to manage/develop it. By all means suggest ideas, but we'll be keeping the set up as it is for the foreseeable future.
